# Market Log — 24 June 2026

--

## Observations and Drivers

**Primary observation:**
> The 24th has followed a consistent SSP outturn pattern as the previous heatwaved days, with flat morning prices (block 2), low prices (at £1 at 3pm) and spikes in block 5b/6a, however prices did not follow a major spike as occured on the 23rd.
> 
> On the 23rd, Nord Pool's N2EX forecasted peak prices of £250 from 7pm to 9pm, and outturn was £700 and £400 for those hours (6pm was forecasted at £190 and outturned at £700). The 24th forecasted even higher N2EX day ahead prices, with 6pm to 10pm forecasting over £300/MWh. This did not come to fruition at all, with actually 5:30 prices being the peak of the day at £300, then immediately plateauing at £100 for the rest of the day. Nord pool did not forecast prices bottoming out in the midday, likely as prices previously in the week had held strong. 
> 
> The likely explanation of this, as demonstrated by grid.iamkate, is a clear ramp down in solar generation from this time, with embedded solar declining from a high of 14GW to nil at 8pm. A grid at 6pm required significantly more generation, and with a lack of wind (as also evidenced by midday solar holding 'high' prices), required gas generations starting up. On DESNZ's 'Electricity Generation Costs' on p33 shows the LCOE (levelised costs of electricity) of Gas plants at 5% load factor to be between £450 and £750, which fall to £100 to £180 at 93% load factor.
> 
> One could expect this to occur again in peak summer days with high solar output during midday, paired with low to no wind output generated from CfD offshore wind turbines, as has occured this week.
 
**Second observation:**
> An interesting factor of the previous few days is incredibly high outturn prices in overnights (ONS, blocks 1 and 2), 3am SSP reached £150 on the morning of the 24th. 
> 
> One implication of this would be a deterioration in flex value from ONS to peaks in any form, either morning peaks or storing until afternoon peaks, preventing too much arbitrage without external forces inflating peak prices. 
> 
> This strong overnight price is likely due to the lack of onshore or offshore wind enabling cheaper generation within the power stack, influencing the marginal pricing strategy to tend towards the expensive gas plants. The national grid dashboard shows a very persistent gas output of 16GW from the end of the 24th into the morning of the 25th, with very flat wind generation of 3GW. 

--

## Sources
https://bmrs.elexon.co.uk/system-prices
https://grid.iamkate.com/
https://assets.publishing.service.gov.uk/media/69ba657326909a14239612e3/electricity-generation-costs-report-2025.pdf

---

*Entry by Lachlan Jack | [linkedin.com/in/Lachlan-Jack/](https://www.linkedin.com/in/Lachlan-Jack/)*